So, what are we fusing?
We're fusing graph operations.
This fusion reduces the number of operations
and accelerates the data passing through the graph.
Consider a three layer pipeline: batch normalization,
feeding into a value,
feeding into a convolution.
This implementations require each layer to store temporary tensors.
We can fuse all three operations together and avoid storing all these extra tensors.
Even better, the fuse operation only execute one kernel on the GPU instead of three.
Each time a kernel is called, there is an overhead.
Fusing kernels therefore, limits the overhead so the overall applications runs faster.
Fusing saves both memory and time.
Of course, fusing could be beneficial in training as well as inference.
The trade off is that fusing reduces the flexibility of the network.
During training, we might want to preserve the flexibility of the model in case
we want to add or remove layers or transfer part of the network.
By the time we get to inference,
we're no longer changing the network architecture,
so we can fuse operations more aggressively.
It's important to know we could do this manually by coding up
a single kernel that performs the three fuse operations together.
However, the compiler is capable of doing this on its own,
allowing us to write understandable code and still reap performance benefits.
We can automate this process using an optimizer that will fuse common layers together.
This allow us to write easier to understand code and manipulate it,
while the final version after the optimization,
we'll have all the performance advantages by applying tricks like fusion automatically.